Hi, in this video we're going to further
extend our understanding of SQL by
talking about subqueries.
A subquery also called a nested query or
inner query is a complete SQL query that
exists within a larger SQL query which
we called the main query or outer query.
There are few reasons we might
use subqueries In data analytics,
we're often trying multiple data in some
unique way immediately for the first time.
As we think through the best
way to pull the data,
we might have multiple steps
that we want to isolate in task
to make sure they're doing
exactly what we want them to do.
Building queries and
pieces from the inside out can allow us
to more effectively test each step and
get to our final output more quickly.
In other cases, there are operations that
are very difficult or even impossible to
do without sub-queries, so we must use
them if we want to accomplish the task.
Finally, depending on the nature of
the database design and the hardware and
software involved, queries with
subqueries might run faster and
more efficiently than those without them.
Of course,
the opposite can be true as well.
You'll need to learn what works best
in your specific data environment.
Before we get to the syntax of subqueries,
let's talk a little bit
about what they actually do.
We know that a SQL query
returns some set of data,
essentially a two dimensional data table
with some number of columns and rows.
If our query only has one column,
it effectively returns
a one-dimensional list of values.
When we use a sub-query in a larger sequel
query, we're basically just replacing
a table name or list of values
with the results of our sub-query.
Let's look at two of the most
common uses of sub-queries.
The first is an where clause of a query
when we're using the in operator to filter
a data set based on some column value,
being in a list of specific column values.
Without a subquery the code might
look like this Select * from table_A
where field_A in value_1,
value_2 All the way up to Value N.
Let's say then instead of a static list,
I wanted to use a list from another
query in the where statement.
I'd simply replace the list
with a subquery like this.
Select star from Table A, where field IN,
select Field B from Table B.
Just like the list itself,
we put the subquery inside parenthesis.
Also remember that the in operator is
looking for list of values so my subquery
must return only one column otherwise the
SQL engine won't know how to interpret it.
Here's an example we used two tables we
introduced in an earlier video on joining
multiple tables.
Specifically we have a transaction table
that contains one purchase per row and
as the following columns, transaction ID,
customer ID, channel, product,
price and discount.
We also have a product's table that
contains one product per row and
three columns, product,
material and medium.
You noticed that the medium column has
values in it that are audio, visual or
audiovisual.
Let's say we wanted a list of purchases
but only of products with a visual medium.
One way to write this query is to use a
joining and filtering approach like this.
Select a.* from transactions
a left join products
B on A.product equals B.product
where B.median equals visual.
This query joins information from
the product table to the transaction table
then uses a where clause to filter only
those rows with visual as a medium.
However I could have also written
a query using a sub query like this.
Select star from transactions
where product in.
Select product from products
where medium equals visual.
Here I first created a list of all
the products in the product stable with
a visual medium using a sub-query.
Then I use that list in the where
clause with the in operator
to filter rose from the transactions
table using product.
Both queries would return the same output
data set, namely the six rows from
the transactions table that are for
the visual book and magazine products.
You'll find that in SQL,
like most programming languages,
there is usually more than one way
to get something accomplished.
How you choose to code will be based on
a combination of logic, performance, and
your own individual style.
Your organization might also have standard
ways of doing things that you want to
consider as well.
So we just talked about how to
use a subquery in a where clause.
The other common use of subqueries is to
replace a table reference in a query,
especially a query with a join command.
Recall that a basic join
query looks like this.
Here, I replace the reference
to table two, with a subquery.
Again like the earlier example,
my subquery is completely
contained within parenthesis.
I still use the alias B to describe
the results of my subquery and
the alias is outside
the ending parenthesis.
In fact this is one case where I must
use an alias because the subquery itself
doesn't have a name like a table would.
Again, we can use our transaction and
products table to illustrate
this idea with an example.
Let's say I wanted to add total sales
by product to our product table.
I can do this using a sub core like this.
Here, I used the sub core to sum the price
across transactions table to get total
sales by product.
Then I use this output in a join
with with the product's table to get
the desired result,
which is just the products table,
the total sales added as
an additional column.
The examples we've used
here are pretty simple.
However, both sub queries and
outer queries in which they exist can
be as complex as you want them to be.
In fact the more complex the query,
the more value you may
find in using subqueries.
As we mentioned earlier, the ability to
breakdown a query into testable parts
can help insure that you queries
doing exactly what you wanted to do.
There are also a number of different
ways in which sub-queries can be use
beyond the two methods
that we've discussed here.
As you become more proficient in writing
sequel code, you can experiment with this
techniques and others to build
your own bag of coding tricks.
There are ton of resources on the web,
including help groups
in coding communities.
They can help you dig deeper and
figure out how to do just
about anything that you want.
So happy coding and
I'll see you next time.